From The Delian Mode film:

I'd heard about the Radiophonic workshop and I said "Oh, I want to go there"
but I was so keen! I went there on my days off, just observing, so that's
where I learned about tape manipulation.

I was in Coventry yesterday for the Doctor Who convention and somebody
very cleverly said to me, because they knew I was born and bred in Coventry,
"Coventry born, bred and blitzed."

The air raid sirens. It's an abstract sound because you don't know the
source of it as a young child. And then the all-clear. That's electronic music
in those days.

After the Blitz, the worst Blitz, I was shifted off to Preston, which is
where my parents came from. Well, I remember it myself: the sound of clogs on
cobbles, you know, people going to the mill at six o'clock in the morning
or something. That must be such an influence on me.


Of the 1966 UDP electronic music festival at the Watermill Theatre, Newbury:
  "We had an evening of electronic music and light effects. The music was
indoors, in a theatre setting, with a screen on which were projected
light shows done by lecturers from the Hornsey College of Art.  It was
billed as the first concert of British electronic music; that was a bit
presumptious! John Betjeman was there... he sat in the front row and
went to sleep... it was quite a social occasion."
   -- http://www.delia-derbyshire.org/unitdeltaplus.php

"People seem to think I'm just working with funny noises, that it isn't quite
serious or something.  I think a lot of people have a sort of block about
electronic music, they think it must sound frightening and oppressive."
   -- "Dial a tune" article, 1970

"Once I read in the Radio Times that the Radiophonic Workshop existed
I was thrilled to bits."
   -- "Masters of Sound" interview 1993

"When Verity Lambert and Wallace Hussein came, they sat in what must
presumably have been the offices or the changing rooms, which was our office,
and literally, flakes of plaster were falling on their shoulders. And they
were so elegantly dressed."
   -- "Masters of Sound" interview 1993

Of Ron Grainer:
"He was the quiet Australian and he had beautiful ears, I mean brilliant ears,
I mean the way his ear/brain function worked. Very good. He was very creative.
He loved new sounds. He loved all sorts of new sounds."
   -- "Masters of Sound" interview 1993

"I saw the graphics at the same time that Ron Grainer did and then I was given
his score."
   -- "Masters of Sound" interview 1993

"When I saw Ron Grainer's score, there were some swoops indicated and I assumed
those were sine waves."
   -- "Masters of Sound" interview 1993

"I think he may have described as guitar, plus, I don't know, something like a
bass bassoon or something."
   -- "Masters of Sound" interview 1993

"But then, apart from that, to fit in with the graphics, he'd used words like
"clouds" and "wind bubble".  "Clouds", obviously, one thinks of as filtered
white noise and "wind bubble", I think we used the wobbulator."
   -- "Masters of Sound" interview 1993

"It was constructed, literally, on quarter inch mono tape, inch by inch
by inch."
   -- "Masters of Sound" interview 1993

"What I'd like to say is that hardly any of it was done in real time. It was
done either at half speed or chopped together in little bits of tape. For
example, the swoops at the beginning, they were done on the old valve
oscillators."
   -- "Masters of Sound" interview 1993

"Ron was so thrilled with the sound of the Doctor Who first mix, that he said
"Give Delia half the royalties. I was so pleased with it because I was going
to book a band". Literally, he didn't think that what he had written on his
score could be so well done with the equipment we had and he was a very
generous person but, of course, that wasn't allowed as I was only a studio
manager or something." (looks crushed)
   -- "Masters of Sound" interview 1993

"I would like to say that, when new producers came along, they always wanted
to change the graphics a bit and have it a bit more sparkly so we put on a
bit of feedback and some high frequencies and it used to distress me.
And they wanted another bar here, another two bars there just to fit their
new graphics whereas to me the music itself was sacred and beautiful as it was
and I thought it was very disrespectful to tart it up like that."
   -- "Masters of Sound" interview 1993

"When the first boss was appointed, that was in 1958, there were two
applicants with a drama background and two with a music background,
and drama won. I was told in no uncertain terms that the BBC does not
employ composers and so it was only by kind of infiltrating the system
that I managed to do music. I think you'd call that [Mattachin] music,
wouldn't you?"
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

"I did try to use electronic sound wherever possible and I think some of
the sounds in what you just heard were what I'd call objets trouvées:
they were bits cut out of other things after editing, but if I was
creating the sound, I'd cut the front off a sound and so that was the
sort of thing I was using in that piece although it wasn't meant as a
piece of music; it was just put together over a lunchtime."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

On Doctor Who:
"The first producer of Doctor Who, Verity Lambert, she had in her mind
Les Structures Sonores. I don't know whether either of you are old enough
to remember this group from Paris. Their music sounded really electronic
but in fact they were all acoustic instruments."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

"The first producer of Doctor Who, Verity Lambert, she had in
her mind /Les Structures Sonores/, this group from Paris. Their music
sounded really electronic but in fact they were all acoustic instruments
and because the Radiophonic Workshop was a below-the-line cost she came to
the Radiophonic Workshop and the boss recommended Ron Grainer because he
had done something called "Giants of Steam". Ron saw the visual titles,
as usual something like a black and white negative, and he took the
timings and went away and wrote the score."
   -- in "Sculptress of Sound"

On Doctor Who:
"It was a magic experience because I couldn't see from the music
how it was going to sound."
   -- in "Sculptress of Sound"

"And so Verity Lambert could not possibly afford Les Structures Sonores
and because the Radiophonic Workshop was a below-the-line cost, she came
to the Radiophonic Workshop and the boss recommended Ron Grainer because
he'd done something called "Giants of Steam" there earlier. Ron saw the
original titles - as usual something like a black and white negative -
and he took the timings and went away to his private beach in Portugal and
wrote the score. And he came back with the score with abstract things
on like "wind clouds" and "sweeps" and "swoops" and "wind bubble":
all, sort of, beautiful descriptions but with a carefully worked-out
rhythm and, yeah, it was very, very subtle, the way he wrote. And so I
got to work and put it all together. It was a magic experience because
I couldn't see from the music how it was going to sound. It was just
Ron's brilliant aural imagination because when he heard the results,
oh! he was really tickled pink."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

"I think every time a new producer came or a new director came they
wanted to tart it up, the title music, and they wanted to put an extra
two bars here, put some extra feedback on the high frequencies. They
kept on tarting it up out of existence. I was really very shocked at
what I had to do in the course of so-called duty."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

On "Blue Veils and Golden Sands":
"This was a documentary program about the Tuareg tribe. The Tuareg tribe
are nomads in the Sahara desert and I think they live by bartering,
taking salt, I think it was, across the desert. In the piece, the extract
you're going to hear, I tried to convey the distance of the horizon and
the heat haze and then there's this very high, slow reedy sound. That
indicates the strand of camels seen at a distance, wandering across the
desert. That in fact was made from square waves on the valve oscillators
we've just talked about, but square waves put though every filter I could
possibly find to take out all the bass frequencies and so one just hears
the very high frequencies. It had to be something out of this world."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

"You should see my last birthday card. It's a lovely one from America
with a whole shoal of fishes with their mouths turned down, fishes in
silhouette, and one fish running, swimming the other way with a smile
on its face and printed on the card was "To an Independent Thinker". I
think that sums me up. I did rebel against a lot of... ah hah. Yes,
I did. I did all sorts of things I was told I couldn't do and yes,
I think I've always been a very independent thinker."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

"I think I've always been a very independent thinker, but I must say that
I go back to first principles when it comes to music. I go back to the
Greeks and the original, well the simple harmonic series. I think that's
a very healthy thing to do for anyone."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

"I think my forte is, well, apart from having an analytical mind to do
electronic sound, at the opposite end I'm very good at writing extended
melody for which there was not really an opening at the BBC."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

On David Vorhaus:
"I met this guy, I was giving a lecture at Morley College in London and
he came up to me afterwards. He played the double bass, the same as I
did, and he was already doing tracks for the Ballet Rambert and we got
together and started this album."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

On An Electric Storm album:
"I don't know when it's been reissued, but yes, it must get played
because I do get some royalties from it."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

On Way Out and odd time signatures:
"Now let us go back to the late fifties, early sixties. Dave Brubeck
had done "Take Five" and in '61 he'd done "It's a Raggy Waltz" so -
that was in seven time - so I thought "Fine! I'm into the numbers
game. I'll do eleven time and thirteen time", continuing the series
of prime numbers. But unfortunately that style, I was told, was "too
sophisticated for the BBC2 audience" and so, as I was doing it, the
choreographer Vin Davis [sp?] happened to be walking down the corridor
and his feet started tapping and he said "I want that!" and I said
"No, you can't! I've done it for the BBC." And so he implored me to do
something in the same style, in eleven time and thirteen time, for his
dance group, which I did. In fact it was the Frankie Howerd and Cilla
Black show it was originally done for, but it had to be scrapped from
that because they did the stupid thing of putting this rather delicate
music as an opener to the second act."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

"I didn't have a television in those days but a friend told me that by
one means or another it ended up as a backing for a deodorant commercial
on television which is something of course we were absolutely forbidden
to do but it was nothing of my doing. It was rejected by BBC2 and there
it was on the commercial."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

On Antony Newley:
"He came to my little one-room flat above a flower shop in Maida Vale
to hear the backing track he'd asked me to do. He said "Don't put a
tune on it because I'm going to write my own tune but I would like
a backing track, an electronic music backing track." And so he said
"You'll probably want to put on your own tune just to make some sense of
the whole thing but I'm not going to use it." But, anyway, he took it
away and not only did he use it, he double-tracked it, he was thrilled
to bits with it. He said, and I felt quite insulted at the time, he said
"I'll soon get you out of this little place." In fact the people who'd
driven him there were Joan and Jackie Collins."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

On Ziwzih Ziwzih Oo-Oo-Oo:
"Most of the programmes that I did were either in the far distant future,
the far distant past or in the mind."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

On Ziwzih Ziwzih Oo-Oo-Oo:
"I think this was the climax of a science fiction play called "The
Prophet". It ended up with all these robots and they sang a song of praise
to this bloke, presumably the prophet, and this was the song they sang. It
is difficult to pronounce because it's made from backwards chanting and
I think if you play it forwards it would say something like "Praise to
the master, his wisdom and his reason" and I just chose the best bits and
"Ziwzih Ziwzih", "his wiz, his wiz": it's that backwards. And I must say
that the Oo-oo-oo is electronic! I think it was at the same time as one
of the Beatles' songs, "Please please me", and so that was like, I think,
er, Drew said he thought it sounded medieval. Well that was because it
was like a new religion and they'd go back to square one and the perfect
fifth as the greeks did. And so my oo-oo-oo's were done on the Wobbulator
which was used very much, say, for example, in the Doctor Who music."
   -- BBC Radio Scotland interview, 1997

Any sound can be made into a radiophonic sound by the treatment
it receives. The sort of sounds we usually use are electronic sounds
of various sorts, and also sounds that are recorded, picked up by a
microphone, everyday sounds and also musical instruments. All these are
   -- in "Sculptress of Sound"

"When I was doing the Inventions with Barry Bermange he wanted
sounds which would sound like a Gothic altarpiece. 'Oh,' I said,
'yes. What a good idea. But what do you really mean? What sort of
sounds?' He said 'Well, give me a pencil and paper'. I did, and with great
care and elaboration he drew me a beautiful Gothic altarpiece and said
'That's the sort of sound I want'.
   -- in "Sculptress of Sound"

On I.E.E.100:
"I began by interpreting the actual letters, I.E.E. one hundred,
in two different ways. The first one in a morse code version using the
morse for I.E.E.100. This I found extremely dull, rhythmically, and so I
decided to use the full stops in between the I and the two E's because
full stop has a nice sound to it: it goes di-dah di-dah di-dah."
   -- in "Sculptress of Sound"

"I wanted to have, as well as a rhythmic motive, to have musical
motive running throughout the whole piece and so I interpreted the letters
again into musical terms. 'I' becomes B, the 'E' remains and 100 I've
used in the roman form of C."
   -- in "Sculptress of Sound"

"I did all sorts of things I was told I couldn't do and,
yes, I think I've always been an independent thinker but I must say that
I go back to first principles when it comes to music. I go back to the
Greeks and the original, simple harmonic series. I think that's a
very healthy thing to do for anyone."
   -- in "Sculptress of Sound"
